Now that we understand what ETFs are
from a very high level perspective,
I wanna introduce you to
your Investment Portfolio Management System
or your IPMS.
I'm not gonna,
I'm not gonna edit that out.
I'm not gonna call that anymore either okay.
I'm just gonna call it
your Investment Portfolio Management System.
If I can't laughed at myself then I'm,
I'm just hopeless dude.
Okay.
Okay so,
I wanna introduce you to this
Investment Portfolio Management System now because,
we're gonna use this system
to pick ETFs to invest in,
as well as individual stocks.
And when you pick stocks
or ETF index funds to invest in,
I wanna to ask yourself one simple question
which uses your god given common sense.
And that question is this.
I want you to please ask yourself,
before picking any investment ever,
ask yourself this question.
Well this company,
or this investment or this ETF,
be more or less relevant in five to ten years?
Very simple question.
And now any 5% of mutual fund professionals,
can't beat index funds
because quite often,
they are too short term focused.
Okay.
We are long term greedy in this course okay.
And ask yourself this question
works exceptionally well.
And if you think about it,
you know if years ago
wherever you ask yourself
if you're gonna use Yahoo search more or less in five years,
right where you invest in the company probably not.
And usually when a company becomes less relevant
over a few years,
in most cases they are done in the long run,
because turn arounds more often than not,
do not work.
Just like my beloved Canadian represent,
my Canadian Blackberry product.
I don't use the Blackberry anymore
and many people don't.
The right was on the wall for a while.
And it's hard for a company to stay relevant
in the long run,
once it becomes a little bit less relevant okay.
And if you ask yourself the five year test,
then I think you'll know not to invest in the company.
Okay.
I think you get the idea.
So when do we sell a company?
We sell if valuation is too expensive
or if something happens
that makes you not want to own that stock
or the investment in the long run.
Okay.
If something happens like negative news item
on the company we're investing in,
just ask yourself one simple question.
Which is this.
If I had known about this news item
on this stock for example,
before I invested,
would I still have bought this stock?
Okay and if the question is no,
then consider selling it.
This stock in index picking methodology
is actually gonna help you to outperform mutual funds
because you're a longer term focus investor.
And long-term investing is much easier okay.
When it comes to a stock,
we don't care with the path is,
we just care about the destination,
which is much higher in the long run okay.
Okay and unlike portfolio managers and mutual funds,
we are not tourists in stocks or indexes.
We are not renters.
We are long-term owners
and long-term investors do much better.
Okay and I love this quote from Warren Buffets.
He said, "I never attempt to make money
"on the stock market.
"I buy on the assumption,
"that they close the stock market the next day,
"and not reopen it for ten years."
I love it.
Okay.
Listen now and take closer look at our
Investment Portfolio Management System.
And don't worry,
as we're gonna focus on what stocks
or ETF or other investments to consider adding
to this system
later as we don't know yet
what are personal diversification strategy is going to be
and I haven't covered that yet.
I haven't covered a pick stocks
or how to do research on them yet.
Okay we'll cover that in a lot detail soon.
It'll be a lot of fun.
And so the way to access your
Investment Portfolio Management System
is to click this button called Your Portfolio right here.
So let's take a closer look now.
What we're gonna do,
is I'm gonna go through this one
from a very high level perspective.
And then in future lessons we'll go through
exactly what each section means.
And so when you click on your portfolio,
you'll see another section.
There's section A,
then section B right here,
section C,
D, E,
etc.
And what I'll do is
I will explain all this section of the portfolio
in upcoming lessons okay.
I just wanna put this anywhere on our screen,
give you a high level introduction of the system.
And when you come here you'll notice that
there is this bright yellow cell here
and I made it bright yellow because
this here will convert from US Dollars
to your local currency.
Okay and so,
I've selected US here in US Dollar so,
if you're managing a portfolio in United States
using this spreadsheet,
then there obviously won't be a change in the exchange rate.
Okay and,
if you actually have another currency,
so let's just for fun,
let me just change the currency for a second here to Euros,
okay.
So what will happen is
you will get the value converted here.
It says you zero now,
cause you don't have anything in this portfolio yet.
But I just wanna introduce you that
constantly change it back here to dollars for now.
Okay great.
Okay.
And,
this Portfolio Management System
is generic enough that
it will be able to manage your investments
in many different types of stocks,
bonds, ETFs commodity, etc.
And we're using Yahoo Finance
and populate this very soon
with commodities, stocks,
bonds, real estate investments,
trust and etc.
I'll explain all that stuff means later okay.
But this spreadsheet here will manage all that stuff.
And as I mentioned couple times the course,
don't enter information any box,
unless it shaded white.
Okay this for yellow.
And you'll see why very soon okay.
And,
this row here,
row seven,
tells you what each field means.
What is the market capitalization,
what is this stock,
what is the percent change.
A lot of it is intuitive,
a lot of it is not.
And you can always hide this as well
and get out of the way just so you have more
real estate on your screen here.
Just like you can always hide
this row here row two.
And we now how to do that,
you just click that little plus or minus button there.
Let me do it.
Okay.
And it's a little slow sometimes that's okay though.
Great.
And so,
here is our holdings.
We will have this populated soon,
of course it's empty right now,
cause there's just nothing there.
And if we scroll down,
we can see that our historical performance will be in here.
And so,
you're actually gonna hard-coded in here.
What was your performance January,
February, March, etc.
You can change this here if you want to as well.
And then comments as well and
I love putting comments on a monthly basis
on my mistakes.
Like, "oh I sold that too fast"
or "gosh, what didn't I buy more of this position,
"when it was down a lot."
That sort of thing.
And then this here is hard-coded
just for annual,
actually just a summary of that.
I think you get the idea.
And if you scroll down here,
these are positions that you no longer own.
And so what you do is,
you'll just kinda highlight this,
cut and then paste it down here,
when you don't own it anymore.
And if you have questions let me know.
And down here are Watchlist.
Things you wanna put in the portfolio eventually,
but you don't wanna add it yet.
And so you'll be able to add them here
and again we'll talk about that very soon.
And so,
this the very high level,
overview of this Portfolio Management System
and next couple of exercises,
by the end of section 18 or so,
you will understand exactly what all this columns mean
and we're gonna populate this first with stocks.
Then we'll populate it with bonds and commodities, etc.
And as always if you have any questions,
please let me know, thank you.